Step 1: Install VS Code on Your Main Computer
Download VS Code:

Visit Visual Studio Code's website and download the version for your operating system (Windows, macOS, or Linux).
Follow the installation instructions on the website.
Open VS Code:

Launch Visual Studio Code once the installation is complete.
Step 2: Enable SSH on Your Raspberry Pi
Enable SSH:

Open a terminal on your Raspberry Pi (or connect a keyboard and monitor if accessing it directly).
Run the following command to enable SSH:
bash
Copy code
sudo systemctl enable ssh
sudo systemctl start ssh
SSH is now enabled, allowing remote access.
Find Raspberry Pi's IP Address:

In the Raspberry Pi terminal, run:
bash
Copy code
hostname -I
Note the IP address of your Raspberry Pi (e.g., 192.168.1.10).
Step 3: Install the Remote - SSH Extension in VS Code
Open VS Code Extensions:

In VS Code, click on the Extensions icon on the left sidebar (or press Ctrl+Shift+X).
Search and Install the Extension:

Search for Remote - SSH and click Install.
This extension allows you to open a folder on a remote machine using SSH and work on it directly from VS Code.
Step 4: Connect to the Raspberry Pi from VS Code
Open the Remote-SSH Menu:

Press Ctrl+Shift+P to open the Command Palette in VS Code.
Type Remote-SSH: Connect to Host... and select it.
Enter the SSH Command:

Type in the SSH command using the Raspberry Pi's IP address:
bash
Copy code
ssh pi@192.168.1.10
Replace 192.168.1.10 with your Raspberry Pi's actual IP address.
For the first connection, you might need to verify the fingerprint by typing yes.
Enter Raspberry Pi Password:

Enter the password for the pi user when prompted. By default, it might be raspberry (if you haven't changed it).
Select the Configuration Folder:

After successfully connecting, VS Code will prompt you to open a folder on the Raspberry Pi. Choose or create a folder where you want to store your project files.
Step 5: Write and Run Code on the Raspberry Pi
Create Python Files:

Use the File Explorer in VS Code to create new Python files for your project (e.g., plant_monitor.py).
Edit Code:

Write your Python scripts to interact with the sensors, publish data using MQTT, and more. You can directly edit files on the Raspberry Pi through VS Code.
Run the Script:

Open the Terminal in VS Code (`Ctrl+``) while connected to the Raspberry Pi.
Run your Python script directly in this terminal:
bash
Copy code
python3 plant_monitor.py
Step 6: Install Python Libraries on the Raspberry Pi
Install Required Libraries:

If your script requires Python libraries (like paho-mqtt or Adafruit_DHT), you can install them using the terminal in VS Code:
bash
Copy code
pip3 install paho-mqtt Adafruit_DHT
Test Sensor Connections:

Make sure your sensors are properly connected to the Raspberry Pi's GPIO pins. Test reading values using simple Python scripts before integrating everything into your main project.
Step 7: Use Git for Version Control (Optional)
Install Git on Raspberry Pi:

If you want to use version control, install Git on the Raspberry Pi:
bash
Copy code
sudo apt-get install git
Push Code to GitHub:

Create a Git repository and push your code for version control and backup.
Step 8: Disconnect and Reconnect to the Raspberry Pi
Close the SSH Connection:

To disconnect, simply close VS Code or use the Remote-SSH: Close Remote Connection option in the Command Palette.
Reconnect Easily:

For future sessions, you can use the Remote - SSH extension in VS Code to quickly reconnect to your Raspberry Pi.
Summary of Key Steps
Install VS Code and the Remote - SSH extension.
Enable SSH on your Raspberry Pi and find its IP address.
Connect to the Raspberry Pi using SSH from VS Code.
Write, edit, and run Python scripts directly on the Raspberry Pi using VS Code’s terminal.
This setup allows you to code in a more powerful environment on your computer while leveraging the Raspberry Pi's capabilities. Let me know if you need further guidance on any specific part of the setup!